AI #1917: Enhance draft pull request guidelines and comms (#1975)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: guidelines/development-processes.md

#### Understanding Draft Status

Draft status signals that the author is still actively working on the pull request and would generally prefer direct conversations about their work-in-progress rather than asynchronous review comments. Adding comments to a draft pull request can be disruptive as the author is forced to stop and respond to your comment vs work on getting the PR completed. It would be best to talk directly with the author and especially important that you involve the author if you are having conversations about the pull request with others.

> **For external reviewers and async collaborators:** Draft status means "not ready yet, but will be soon." Once a PR comes out of draft status, there will be plenty of time for async feedback.

Reviewer: Often, if someone outside TF wants to provide feedback, I think it's better to get it earlier rather than later (what the PR owner or the TF responsible does with that feedback, and the timeline for responding is up to the PR owner). I think in open-source development, there shouldn't be such a thing as “it's not a good time, come back and give me your feedback later”. At the same time, I'm ok with us just leaving it at this:
> - **Draft PRs:** Reviewers should not expect immediate responses to feedback. Authors may defer and/or resolve comments until the PR moves to open status.

I personally have seen that the later we get feedback, the harder and more emotional the addressing/collaborating gets.. so leaving it as just a response timeline expectation is sufficient IMO

Author: I appreciate your concern and I believe we're aligned on the "earlier is better" perspective. My goal is simply to protect the author in the event they aren't ready to address feedback on an incomplete PR. I don't expect this being a point of friction within the working group, but I'm happy to revisit if needed once we've kicked tires on this formalized approach.

Reviewer 2: @udam-stitcher @Matt-Cowsert 
Please sync on how/whether we can resolve this last thread on this PR -- would like to put it up for Member approval tomorrow.  Thanks!

Reviewer: I've provided a version that could work as a suggestion. I'm not that passionate about it to hold anything up :) so if the group's opinion is that setting expectations on the feedback responses alone is insufficient, then lets go wit the original.

#### When Draft PRs May Welcome Feedback

While draft status generally discourages async feedback, authors MAY explicitly invite feedback on specific aspects of a draft PR:

1. **Whitelist/Blacklist Approach:** Authors can leave PR comments indicating which sections are ready for feedback (whitelist) or which sections are not ready (blacklist):
   - **More draft than open:** Keep as draft and comment on specific sections ready for feedback
   - **More open than draft:** Mark as open and comment on specific sections not ready for feedback

2. **Assignment as Signal:** Authors MAY assign specific reviewers to a draft PR to explicitly request their feedback, even while the PR remains in draft status.

3. **Task Force Collaboration:** Within a Task Force working on complex topics, members may collaborate more actively on draft PRs when the author has communicated (in TF meetings, Slack, or PR comments) that feedback is welcome on specific aspects.

#### Feedback Expectations

> - **Draft PRs:** Reviewers should not expect immediate responses to feedback. Authors may defer addressing comments until the PR moves to open status.

Reviewer 2: The default expe

Want to make sure the group understands that the default expectations for comments on draft PRs is "please don't unless I asked".  Comments from the peanut gallery without having been requested might be suggesting something that is already planned.  Therefore:

```suggestion
- **Draft PRs:** Reviewers should not expect immediate responses to feedback. Authors may defer and/or resolve comments until the PR moves to open status.
```

- **Open PRs:** Authors are expected to be responsive to reviewer feedback in a timely manner.

> When in doubt, respect the draft status and wait for the author to mark the PR as ready for review, or communicate directly with the author to ask if feedback would be helpful.

Reviewer: Here's a possible version that isn't discouraging feedback, but instead sets expectations about feedback response timelines.

```suggestion
#### Understanding Draft Status

Draft status signals that the author is still actively working on the pull request. While the work may still evolve significantly, early feedback in open-source development is often helpful and not discouraged. However, reviewers should understand that the author may choose not to respond immediately while the work is still in progress. Authors may prioritize completing the draft before engaging asynchronously.

#### When a Draft PR's Authors May Encourage Feedback

While draft status signals that work is still in progress, authors MAY explicitly invite feedback on specific aspects of a draft PR:

1. **Allowlist/Denylist Approach:** Authors can leave PR comments indicating which sections are ready for feedback (allowlist) or which sections are not ready (denylist).

2. **Assignment as Signal:** Authors MAY assign specific reviewers to a draft PR to explicitly request their feedback, even while the PR remains in draft status.

3. **Task Force Collaboration:** Within a Task Force working on complex topics, members may collaborate more actively on draft PRs when the author has communicated (in TF meetings, Slack, or PR comments) that feedback is welcome on specific aspects.

####Feedback Expectations

- **Draft PRs:** Reviewers may provide feedback at any time. Authors may defer responses and/or resolve comments until the PR moves to open status.
- **Open PRs:** Authors are expected to be responsive to reviewer feedback in a timely manner.

When in doubt, respect the draft status as a signal that the author may still be iterating, and understand that engagement may occur once the PR is marked ready for review.
```

Author: Thanks @udam-stitcher. You're right that the "discourages" framing was heavier than intended, and the shift to response-timeline expectations is cleaner.

I'm going to push an update that adopts the core of your suggestion (removing the discouraging language, flipping to "reviewers may provide feedback at any time," renaming to "Encourage Feedback") while keeping a lighter version of the external reviewer callout. That paragraph serves async-first contributors who aren't in TF meetings and might not know where they stand.

Pushing shortly.
